---
title: "Keyboards, Shortcuts, and Vim layouts"
categories: Productivity
tags:
- PKM
- Vim
- Dvorak
header:
  image: /assets/images/2023_02.png
---

There are nerds, but even among nerds there are things where I go above and beyond traditional nerdiness. One of those things is keyboards and shortcuts.

I've always found keyboards fascinating. With up to 100 keys and all 10 fingers using them. The input possibilities are staggering. The keyboard paradigm is still in use on touchscreens because of how intuitive it is.

Despite that, most workflows are mouse-driven. Typing properly on a keyboard is a skill that is being lost. And most programs release with few, if any, keyboard shortcuts, which usually make absolutely no sense.

So let's walk you through my 10 years journey on keyboards, their layouts, shortcuts maps, and Vim.

# Keyboards

My first mechanical keyboard was an ISO Filco Majestouch in 2010. An ISO keyboard is a keyboard with a "big-ass `Enter`" key (yes, that's how they're called in the community).

While it was a great keyboard I preferred the longer `Enter` key as it required less right hand movement to type it. So I decided to move to an ANSI keyboard in 2012.

But this was not enough, and in 2019 I caved in to my darkest pulsions and built my first split orthogonal keyboard: an Ergodox Ez.

{% twitter <https://twitter.com/TolkiCasts/status/1160497124561174528>%}

I also experimented quite a bit with switches in those years. From brown, to blue, to red, to silent browns, to silent reds.
